TESTING.md, before:

# City Gardens -  Testing

![City Gardens shown on a variety of screen sizes](docs/city-gardens-mockup-test.png)

Link to the live site here: [City Gardens](https://zest-studi-o.github.io/P01-Allotment-gardens/)
- - -

## CONTENTS

* [AUTOMATED TESTING](#AUTOMATED-TESTING)
  * [W3C Validator](#W3C-Validator)
  * [Lighthouse](#Lighthouse)
* [MANUAL TESTING](#MANUAL-TESTING)
  * [Testing User Stories](#Testing-User-Stories)
  * [Full Testing](#Full-Testing)

Manual testing was carried as soon as the project started and a list of bugs were identified to tackle using exploratory testing techniques.
At the same time of building each page those were tested in different screen sizes using the developer tools to better adjust the design and make sure the website is responsive in all screensizes.
Automated testing was carried at a later stage using validators and all errors were fixed.

- - -

## AUTOMATED TESTING

### W3C Validator 
HTML - No errors were returned when passing through the official W3C validator.
[W3C Validator](https://validator.w3.org/)
* [index.html]() - Passed
* [locations.html]() - Passed
* [contact-us.html]() - Passed
* [thank-you.html]() - Passed

* [style.css]() - Passed

### Jigsaw Validator
CSS - No errors were found when passing through the official (Jigsaw) validator.
[Jigsaw Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)

- - -

### Lighthouse

I used Lighthouse within the Chrome Developer Tools to test the performance, accessibility, best practices and SEO of the website.
This test was run torough different devices which returned different results.

### Desktop Results

### Mobile Results

- - -

## MANUAL TESTING

`First Time Visitors`
| Goals | How are they achieved? |
| :--- | :--- |
| As a user I want to have the site displayed clearly in different devices | abc |
| As a user I want to find information on what is City Gardens and how to participate | abc |
| As a user I want to show exactly where the gardens are located | abc |
| As a user I want to be able to contact City Gardens with any queries or suggestions | abc |

`Returning Visitors`
| Goals | How are they achieved? |
| :--- | :--- |
| As a returning visitor I want to find images and videos of the allotments | abc |
| As a returning visitor I want to be able to easily contact City Gardens with further questions I might have | abc |

`Frequent Visitors`
| Goals | How are they achieved? |
| :--- | :--- |
| As a frequent visitor I want to see images of the people that participate in City Gardens| abc |

### Full Testing
Full testing was performed on the following devices:
* Destop:
  * Custom Gaming computer with 2 screens set-up 24 inches
* Laptop:
  * Macbook Pro 2023 14 inch screen
* Mobile Devices:
  * iPhone 13 pro.
 
Each device tested the site using the following browsers:

* Google Chrome
* Safari
* Firefox

## Test Cases

`Home Page`
| Feature | Expected Result | Testing Performed | Actual Result | Pass/Fail |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| The Sites title | Link directs the user back to the home page | Clicked title | Home page reloads | Pass |

Commit message:

Update readme.md and testing.md with features and a table for the test cases to test those features

TESTING.md, after:

# City Gardens -  Testing

![City Gardens shown on a variety of screen sizes](docs/city-gardens-mockup-test.png)

Link to the live site here: [City Gardens](https://zest-studi-o.github.io/P01-Allotment-gardens/)
- - -

## CONTENTS

* [AUTOMATED TESTING](#AUTOMATED-TESTING)
  * [W3C Validator](#W3C-Validator)
  * [Lighthouse](#Lighthouse)
* [MANUAL TESTING](#MANUAL-TESTING)
  * [Testing User Stories](#Testing-User-Stories)
  * [Full Testing](#Full-Testing)

Manual testing was carried as soon as the project started using exploratory testing techniques and a list of bugs were identified and place in a table to tackle.
At the same time of building each page those were tested in different screen sizes using the developer tools to better adjust the design and make sure the website is responsive in all screensizes.
Automated testing was carried at a later stage using validators and all errors were fixed.

- - -

## AUTOMATED TESTING

### W3C Validator 
HTML - No errors were returned when passing through the official W3C validator.
[W3C Validator](https://validator.w3.org/)
* [index.html]() - Passed
* [locations.html]() - Passed
* [contact-us.html]() - Passed
* [thank-you.html]() - Passed

* [style.css]() - Passed

### Jigsaw Validator
CSS - No errors were found when passing through the official (Jigsaw) validator.
[Jigsaw Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)

- - -

### Lighthouse

I used Lighthouse within the Chrome Developer Tools to test the performance, accessibility, best practices and SEO of the website.
This test was run thorough different devices which returned different results.

### Desktop Results

### Mobile Results

- - -

## MANUAL TESTING

`First Time Visitors`
| Goals | How are they achieved? |
| :--- | :--- |
| As a user I want to have the site displayed clearly in different devices | abc |
| As a user I want to find information on what is City Gardens and how to participate | abc |
| As a user I want to show exactly where the gardens are located | abc |
| As a user I want to be able to contact City Gardens with any queries or suggestions | abc |

`Returning Visitors`
| Goals | How are they achieved? |
| :--- | :--- |
| As a returning visitor I want to find images and videos of the allotments | abc |
| As a returning visitor I want to be able to easily contact City Gardens with further questions I might have | abc |

`Frequent Visitors`
| Goals | How are they achieved? |
| :--- | :--- |
| As a frequent visitor I want to see images of the people that participate in City Gardens| abc |

### Full Testing
Full testing was performed on the following devices:
* Destop:
  * Custom Gaming computer with 2 screens set-up 24 inches
* Laptop:
  * Macbook Pro 2023 14 inch screen
* Mobile Devices:
  * iPhone 13 pro.
 
Each device tested the site using the following browsers:

* Google Chrome
* Safari
* Firefox

## Test Cases

`Home page`
| Feature | Expected Result | Testing Performed | Actual Result | Pass/Fail |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| The Sites title | Clicking on the logo link directs the user back to the home page | Clicked title | Home page reloads | Pass |
| Hero section | abc | abc | abc | Pass |
| About us section | abc | abc | abc | Pass |
| Video section | abc | abc | abc | Pass |

`Locations page`
| Feature | Expected Result | Testing Performed | Actual Result | Pass/Fail |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Imaages of the locations | abc | abc | abc | Pass |
| Map and address | abc | abc | abc | Pass |


`Contact us page`
| Form | abc | abc | abc | Pass |

`Thank you page`
| Message to the user | abc | abc | abc | Pass |
